# 3D_motion_tracking_of_single_ions

------General Introduction-------------------

This repository contains supplementary codes for the dynamic ion imaging study titled "Tracking the extensive three-dimensional motion of single ions by an engineered point-spread function". It incluldes the iterative optimization code for the helical phase mask generation and the calculation for the theoretical localization precision based on the Cramer-Rao lower bound. 

---------------------------------------------


------Description of Contents----------------

This supplementary includes the following files:

"Iterative_mask_opt.m": This script performs an iterative optimization for the helical phase mask. It starts from the initial phase mask generated with "DHphase2.m" that is defined on the circular Fresnel zones and optimizes using an adapted version of the Gerchberg-Saxton algorithm. It reduces the the number of diffraction edges in the mask and boosts the two lobes in the corresponding PSF at various rotation angles. 

"Precis_disp.m": This script performs an example comparison between the double helical PSF and the conventional Airy disk method by calculating their theoretical localization precision. Default parameters are set to meet our experimental conditions for the ion tracking study.

"CRLB_cal.m": This function calculates the theoretical localization precision for a certain PSF that is generated by the input phase mask and specified parameters for the imaging system and imaging conditions, including the wavelength, numerical aperture, magnification, pixel size, expected number of detected photons, expected number of background photons, etc.

"DH_phase_Fresnl.m": This function generates the double helical phase mask defined on circular Fresnel zones.

"Gauss_func2D.m": This function takes the xy coordinates and relavant parameters, returning a 2D Gaussian profile.

"gaussFit.m": This function fits a 2D Gaussian profile to the point emitter image, returning parameters of amplitude, mean centroids and standard deviations, etc.

------------------------------------------------

References:

[1]René Berlich and Sjoerd Stallinga, "High-order-helix point spread functions for monocular three-dimensional imaging with superior aberration robustness," Opt. Express 26, 4873-4891 (2018)

[2]Sri Rama Prasanna Pavani and Rafael Piestun, "High-efficiency rotating point spread functions," Opt. Express 16, 3484-3489 (2008)

[3]Jerry Chao, E. Sally Ward, and Raimund J. Ober, "Fisher information theory for parameter estimation in single molecule microscopy: tutorial," J. Opt. Soc. Am. A 33, B36-B57 (2016)

[4]Yoav Shechtman, Lucien E. Weiss, Adam S. Backer, Steffen J. Sahl, and W. E. Moerner, "Precise Three-Dimensional Scan-Free Multiple-Particle Tracking over Large Axial Ranges with Tetrapod Point Spread Functions," Nano Lett. 15(6), 4194-4199 (2015)

------------------------------------------------
